Debugging, it's all part of the game.
There's a lot happening with the browser,
so sometimes we get unexpected results.
For example,
our toggle button works, right?
But when I click this close button,
If it was in light mode,
it goes back to dark mode.
It's like, I don't know, is this trying
to tell us something about the dark side
of the force and how evil always wins?
I don't know,
maybe this is sort of an Easter egg for
philosophical contemplation by the user.
Probably we want the page to do
what the user expects it to do,
which would be stay in light mode if I
change the toggle to light mode, yeah?
Okay, so let us inspect to find
out what's happening here.
Now our toggle is supposed to be
changing the value of this data theme.
So if I refresh the page,
this page starts out on dark mode, right?
And keep in mind that all of
the code that we're writing,
this is like code that is just running
in the current, View of the page.
So, new Window that loads the page is just
gonna get the exact same original HTML.
That we got first without any of
the manipulations that we've done in
JavaScript, which is another reason why
it's great to [LAUGH] avoid JavaScript.
But, the idea is that at least
while I am still in this
same page I want that toggle to stay put.
So let's see what happens
when we interact.
Okay, right now it's in
dark mode the toggle works,
it does its job of changing
the data theme to light.
It goes back and forth as needed but
when I close the form,
It goes back to dark.
And did we notice this,
Blinking in the dev tools here?
Okay, so the brilliant
community of co-developers that
we have here of put our heads together and
figured out what is happening.
And this is related to,
Where did we have it?
That submit button that we
have in the dialogue here.
Now remember,
we didn't attach our own event listener to
the call close button in the form class.
So we're just letting the browser
do its default behavior for
button type equals submit.
Which is to submit the form and
then refresh the page, right?
Which now in like our
JavaScript DeLanda of like basically
doing all of the behavior that
the browser was expecting us
to submit some data to go somewhere
else to mess with things.
In this case, we're just doing
things client side with JavaScript.
And so
the default behavior of this submit,
Clicking on the button submitting
the form is not what we want, really.
We can stop that behavior with
a handy dandy method on the,
Event that we get when we
have an event listener.
Now, this is a different button,
but just as an example,
when we add an event listener,
we pass in this callback.
This callback can take an argument
which the browser is going to pass in.
This can take a parameter that the browser
is gonna pass in an argument of the event,
in this case, click event that fired
that caused this callback to run.
So what we can do is instead of trying
to save ourselves some JavaScript and
try to do things as natively browser-like
as possible, is totally mess with it.
So, what can do this in like
another method we can have like
a setup close button or
something like that.
But for just in the interest of time,
what we can do is set an event
listener on the CloseButton,
That addEventListener it's gonna
be listening for the click event.
Or I think we could also listen for
the submit event on the form, yeah?
We could also do that.
So for example,
we could do like this.element,
set, no, addEventListener.
Am I ever gonna remember
what that method is called?
No.
[LAUGH] No matter how many hundreds of
times I've typed it.
Okay, the event on, sorry, so
the element is the form element?
The form element has a submit event.
And that it gets a handler that we can
pass and we can capture after the event,
which the browser is gonna pass
into this callback, just by magic.
We can do stuff with this event, like, for
example, often we're looking at stuff.
What was the event target?
Meaning, like,
what was the element that was
interacted with that triggered this event.
But we also have a prevent
default method that,
lets us prevent whatever the default
behavior of that event was gonna be.
And if we try this out,
let's try this out and see what happens,
then we're not going to do anything
else in our handler right now.
But if we try this out, and
we go back to our dark modal, and
so yes, we were really make sure we got,
okay, all right.
So now we press close and
I'm pressing close.
You may clicking, but
I'm clicking and nothing happening.
Yeah, well, the browser's like,
yeah, you told me not to do anything.
You told me to not do the thing
that I usually do, which is like,
do a bunch of work for
you all the time, constantly.
And you don't even appreciate me [LAUGH].
So now that we've prevented the default
behavior, we need to do some.
And that's where we're gonna need to now,
in this case, close our dialogue.
So that means we have a little bit
of an abstraction problem here,
if we wanna be preventing the default
from within our form constructor.
That means that any form dialogue or
not dialogue it's not the close
button is not going to work, right?
But maybe what we wanna do is since we
know that in this case we're actually
interested in the fact that this is
a modal and that this is being submitted.
And what we want the submission to
do is actually just close the modal.
What we could do is, oops, In the form,
we don't have any dialogue element
because the form is just a form.
It doesn't know that it's
inside of a dialogue.
The modal class is where we put
the form inside of the dialogue.
And we create a,
Dialogue type form deliberately
as users of the form class.
All right, but other people
might be not having dialogues,
they might just have regular
forms in their page.
So in this case,
we might want to do that
event handling,
Inside of our place where we
are actually instantiating the form.
So that we're not doing this for
every single form that gets created ever,
but we're only doing it for
this one instance of form that we
just made to be in a dialogue.
So that we can decide if we're
preventing the default behavior,
we're probably gonna need to
supply some non-standard behavior.
So that the user doesn't just have a super
frustrating experience of being stuck in
a modal for eternity.
All right, so now let's see,
oops, what did I do?
Form.addEventListener is
not a function because
I need to access the element
[LAUGH] of the form.
Okay, let's see if that makes,
okay, all right, all right.
So now, okay, this form still works and
the close button still does not work.
But somebody else who called
a instantiated a different form object is
not also gonna have their
close button broken.
Cuz this is just special to me and
my modal use case.
So now what we need to do is do the thing
that we want the close button to do.
So, yeah,
dialogue is the dialogue element,
okay, this, nope, nope, nope, nope.
Well, all right,
let's try it, let's do it.
This.dialogue.close, would be
how we manually close an open dialog.
See what happens.
Okay, well now it's backwards but
all right.
Okay.
Okay, so in this case,
this actually did do what
we thought it should do.
But I believe, so this is a, like,
a super detailed thing about
the difference between.
So far we've essentially been
using arrow functions and
function keyword functions as
if they're exactly the same.
But they're not.
Because why would
JavaScript be predictable?
Where would the fun be in that?
When we have an arrow function,
let's go to our friend MDN and find out.
Arrow function expressions [COUGH].
Arrow functions don't have their own
bindings to this or arguments or
super or some other like fancy things
that we can do with functions.
So JavaScript would also accept
an anonymous function here
with the function keyword, or
a named function if I wanted to.
See what happens if I do it that way.
Okay, so toggle works cool,
it's changing up this dialog is undefined.
What?
Because and this is why again,
like in general this is not my friend.
I don't know if it's your friend maybe
you're better at remembering which,
whether it's the arrow function,
has its own this or that function,
that has its own this?
I don't.
So this is why I reassign stuff
all the time.
But in this case, I would need to capture,
do something like dialogue.
Is this dialogue?
And then I'll be able to close
over that value with my little
closure function, hopefully.
And, okay, well, it's backwards, but
that's because of something fancy
happening behind the scenes.
Okay, so now, hopefully,
it worked because of closures,
because of that scope fossilizing
that we talked about [LAUGH] before.
All right, great, so,
we have successfully debugged a super
broken page that was not finished,
I lied to you.
And we have also come upon a very often,
like, if you may have already used and
seen this prevent default,
like, all over the place.
And sometimes, especially I remember when
I was starting out, I was just like,
all right, I don't exactly know why we're
preventing defaults all over the place.
But all of my colleagues
are writing their new
event handlers with prevent defaults and
so on and so forth.
So I'm just gonna copy that.
But so this is a good example of when we
really do need to override the default
behavior.
Because we are messing with how
the user will be interacting.
We're taking advantage of one
convenience of the browser,
which is that if you submit a form within
a dialogue, it will close the dialogue.
But we are,
Getting around the other default
behavior of form submission in general,
which is to reload the page.
Just goes to show how much our just
hard-working browsers are doing for us.
Every millisecond of [LAUGH] the day
that we are poking around on
the internet looking at cat memes and
GIFs.
So thank you browsers for all that you do.
Grateful to have you and grateful that
JavaScript lets us totally mess with you
and confuse our users and
break their pages and so on and so forth.
So, victory.